Sarah lived 127 years these were the
years of the life of Sarah so Sarah died
in Kiryat Arba
that is Hebron in the land of Canaan and
Abraham came to mourn for Sarah and to
weep for her then Abraham stood up
before his dead and spoke to the sons of
Heth I am a father and a visitor among
you give me property for a burial place
among you that I may bury my dead out of
my sight and the sons of Heth answered
Abraham here is my lord you are a mighty
Prince among us bury your dead in a
choicest of our burial places none of us
were withhold from you his burial place
that you may bury your dead then Abraham
stood up and bowed himself to the people
of the land the sons of Heth and he
spoke with them if it is your wish that
I bury my dead out of my sight hear me
and meet with Ephraim the son of Zohar
for me that he may give me the Cave of
Machpelah which he has which is at the
end of his field let him give it to me
at the full price as property for a
burial place among you
now Ephraim dwelt among the sons of Heth
and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham
in the presence of the sons of Heth all
who entered at the gate of his City
no my lord hear me I give you the field
and the cave that is in it I give it to
you in the presence of the sons of my
people I give it to you bury your dead
then Abraham bowed himself down before
the people of the land and he spoke to
ephraim in the hearing of the people of
the land if you will give it please hear
me I will give you money for the fields
take it from me and I will bury my dead
deer and Ephraim answered Abraham my
lord listen to me the land is worth four
hundred shekels of silver
what is that between you and me so bury
your dead and Abraham listened to
Ephraim and Abraham wait out the silver
for ef'n which he had named in the
hearing of the sons of Heth four hundred
shekels of silver currency of the
merchants
so the field of Ephron which was in
Machpelah which was before Mamre the
field and the cave which is in it and
all the trees that were in the field
which were within all the surrounding
borders were deeded to Abraham as a
possession in the presence of the sons
of Heth before all who went in at the
gate of his City and after this Abraham
buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the
field of Machpelah before Mamre that is
Hebron in the land of Canaan so the
field and the cave that is in it were
deeded to Abraham by the sons of Heth as
property for a burial place
you